.TH metro 1
.SH NAME
metro \- METRo is a road weather forecast software from Environment Canada.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B metro
[\-\-version] [\-\-help] [\-\-roadcast-start-date date] [\-\-input\-forecast filename] [\-\-input\-observation filename] [\-\-input\-station filename] [\-\-output\-forecast filename] [\-\-output\-roadcast filename] [\-\-config filename] [\-\-generate\-config filename] [\-\-log\-file filename] [\-\-verbose\-level level] [\-\-selftest] [\-\-silent] [\-\-lang]
.SH DESCRIPTION
With the help of observations provided by roads weather stations (road weather information system, RWIS) and the atmospheric forecast, METRo can predict the roads conditions with particular interest such as: freezing rain, accumulation of snow, frost or defrost soil. 
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B
\-\-version
output version information and exit
.TP
.B \-\-help
Display a list of command line options.
.TP
.B \-\-roadcast-start-date date
Optionnal.  If this argument is not present, the date of the last observation is used. Date of the first roadcast.  The format is ISO 8601.  See http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601 for further details.
.TP
.B \-\-use-solarflux-forecast
Optionnal. Use this argument if you want to provide the solar flux in the atmospheric forecast file instead of a theoretical flux based on cloud cover. The tag for solar flux in forecast file is '<sf>'.
.TP
.B \-\-use-infrared-forecast
Optionnal. Use this argument if you want to provide the infra-fred flux in the atmospheric forecast file instead of a theoretical flux based on cloud cover. The tag for infra-red flux in forecast file is '<ir>'.
.TP
.B \-\-input\-forecast filename
Set where is the atmosperic forecast file.
.TP
.B \-\-input\-observation filename
filename is where the observation of the RWIS station is.
.TP
.B \-\-input\-station filename
filename is where the configuration file of the RWIS station is.
.TP
.B \-\-output\-forecast filename
Set where the roadcast of METRo will be written.
.TP
.B \-\-config filename
If a configuration file is provided, the options in this file can be used instead of those given in command line.  To generate a file with the requested format, see the option \-\-generate\-config .
.TP
.B \-\-generate\-config filename
Generate an empty config file.  You can then fill the options that will be used if the option \-\-config is set to filename on a subsequent call to metro.
.TP
.B \-\-log\-file filename
Set the path of the metro log file.
.TP
.B \-\-verbose\-level level
Select the verbose level of the logged messages of metro.  
.br    1- No log is made of any message
.br    2- Minimal level 
.br    3- Normal (default)
.br    4- Full
.br    5- Debug
.TP
.B \-\-selftest
Execute a test with default files provided with metro.  The default command line is:
.br  metro --model-start-y 2004 --model-start-m 01 --model-start-d 30 --model-start-h 20 --input-forecast ../../data/forecast/forecast_selftest.xml --input-observation ../../data/observation/observation_selftest.xml --input-station ../data/station/station_selftest.xml --output-forecast ../../data/roadcast/roadcast_selftest.xml --verbose-level 5
.TP
.B\-\-silent
Do not write in the standard output.
.TP
.B\-\-lang fr|en
Choose the language of message for METRo.  Default is english. Only french is currently implemented as other language.
.SH AUTHOR
Written by Miguel Tremblay, Francois Fortin, Yves Delage and Louis-Philippe Crevier.
.SH COPYRIGHT
COPYRIGHT \(co 2004, Service Meteorologique du Canada, Environnement Canada.  See documentation at  http://documentation.wikia.com/wiki/METRo for details.
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Report bugs to <metro-developers@gna.org>
